<!-- title: Tools, Play, and Products -->

i've noticed a huge difference between how people approach code:

some people make problems harder for themselves; they take joy in finding a complicated problem and solving it, especially when they're mostly doing so on their own, without googling the answers.

other people make problems easier for themselves; they use the tooling they're most familiar with. they google the answer to every small question they have. they use popular toolchains to increase the odds that they'll find answers to any problems or bugs they run into.

the way i, and a lot of people i think, tend to look at this is that the people in the first category are playing, while the people in the second category are working. for product-focused people (the second group), the tools are simply an obstacle in the way of building the product.

to the first group, play-focused people, it's all about the tools. the means are the end. when you decide to write your own website in haskell or compile it using a makefile, you're clarifying that you don't just care about what the user experience is like. you're doing it because you want to do it. you're showing that you enjoy the journey.

i think this is the crux that separates the geeks from the startup bros. the geeks write compilers that compile clojurescript into binaries not because there's a commercial demand for it, but because it's a fun experiment to them.

the archetypal startup bro downloads react and a bootstrap template and makes something easy on the eyes, usually which serves a commercial purpose. if it's pretty, it's because the target audience wants it to be pretty.

i want to say that there's absolutely zero shame in this mindset. if there weren't people who valued the product over the tools to make it, and over the challenge of making it, then we'd all be fucked. the internet would be inaccessible to the vast majority of people who could benefit from it.

this also doesn't include the third type of person -- the kind of person who creates products as a form of play. this kind of person thinks of marketing, branding, ux, all as part of the puzzle to be solved. this is the game this person enjoys playing -- the game of selling, of advertising, of not just solving a user problem but of selling the solution
